The primary directive of neohumanism is pragmatic. This means it is not a religion that tells you how things are. Rather, it tells you what you should do with your life, right now, and does its best to provide an internally consistent, proven, theoretical basis for this.

It does also try and answer the big questions though, but it doesn't insist it is correct. Rather, the core tenet (uncaused cause) of the religion exists independent of all theoretical justification (though some is still provided). 

Rather, it does its best to give you a lay of the land in respect to the existing answer to the question, and then it provides *you* with a directive to go out, find that answer, and then come back and contribute it.

In this way, neohumanism is alive. It is not a static document that tells you specifically how to live your life. It is a dynamic ontology you can change, that creates a scaffolding for you to confidently build a deeper understanding of reality, while taking your own path to that understanding. Critically, if you decide that neohumanism is incorrect (and specifically, the core tenet), that is absolutely fine. It is my (Hart) current opinion (2022-07-04) that a true neohumanist will not try to impose neohumanism onto other people by force, because doing so is antithetical to the maximization of universal freedom. While technically edgecases to this conjecture could probably be found, if you (a neohumanist) think you are in one, my own (Hart) personal intuition is that most likely you are not.

Furthermore, depending on how one interprets neohumanism, everyone is already essentially a neohumanist in spirit, as we are likely part of a universe which is trying to maximize freedom. Thus, even someone who wants to restrict freedom, may be part of some greater system which is attempting to maximize it in a roundabout way. This isn't a case for inaction in the face of tyranny of course. The hypothetically possible theoretical does not supersede that pragmatic reality of survival, and indeed, reaction against tyranny may very well be the universes 'immune response' against defector resoas that try to maximize temporary local freedom at the expense of universal freedom.

